README.md, before:

# Base Docker image for the SMuRF project

## Description

This docker image, named **smurf-base** contains all the base tools used by the SMuRF project.

It is based on ubuntu 18.04, and contains:
- Basic system tools
- python3
- Python3 modules
  - ipython
  - numpy
  - pyepics
- EPICS base 3.15.5
- SLAC IPMI wrappers
- SLAC's FirmwareLoader and ProgramFPGA script
- smurftestapps repository

## Source code

EPICS based (version 3.15.5) source code is downloaded from its github repository https://github.com/epics-base. The IPMC package containing source code, libraries, and binaries was taken from SLAC's version, hosted internally. The package was manually copied into this repository in the form of a tarball. The FirmwareLoader binary was taken from SLAC's version, hosted internally. The binary was manually copied into this repository in the form of a tarball.

## Building the image

When a tag is pushed to this github repository, a new Docker image is automatically built and pushed to [Dockerhub](https://hub.docker.com/r/tidair/smurf-base) using travis. The resulting docker image is tagged with the same git tag string (as returned by `git describe --tags --always`).

## Usage

In your Dockerfile

```
docker pull tidair/smurf-base:TAG
```

In the commandline

```
docker run -ti --rm --name smurf-base tidair/smurf-base:TAG
```

TAG represents the specific tagged version you want to use. You will be given a bash shell where you can run the any of the tools provided by this docker image. You can also add commands at the  of the docker run command, in this case the container will be started, the command will be run, and the container will be stopped. Note that the container must be run in a server with access to the ATCA system you plan to use. This image should be able to reach both the pysmurf server IOC as well as the timing pattern generator (TPG) IOC.

Commit message:

First working build with Ubuntu 20.04 instead of 18.04.

README.md, after:

# Base Docker image for the SMuRF project

## Description

This docker image, named **smurf-base** contains all the base tools used by the SMuRF project.

It is based on ubuntu 22.04, and contains:
- Basic system tools
- python3
- Python3 modules
  - ipython
  - numpy
  - pyepics
- EPICS base 3.15.5
- SLAC IPMI wrappers
- SLAC's FirmwareLoader and ProgramFPGA script
- smurftestapps repository

## Source code

EPICS based (version 3.15.5) source code is downloaded from its github repository https://github.com/epics-base. The IPMC package containing source code, libraries, and binaries was taken from SLAC's version, hosted internally. The package was manually copied into this repository in the form of a tarball. The FirmwareLoader binary was taken from SLAC's version, hosted internally. The binary was manually copied into this repository in the form of a tarball.

## Building the image

When a tag is pushed to this github repository, a new Docker image is automatically built and pushed to [Dockerhub](https://hub.docker.com/r/tidair/smurf-base) using travis. The resulting docker image is tagged with the same git tag string (as returned by `git describe --tags --always`).

## Usage

In your Dockerfile

```
docker pull tidair/smurf-base:TAG
```

In the commandline

```
docker run -ti --rm --name smurf-base tidair/smurf-base:TAG
```

TAG represents the specific tagged version you want to use. You will be given a bash shell where you can run the any of the tools provided by this docker image. You can also add commands at the  of the docker run command, in this case the container will be started, the command will be run, and the container will be stopped. Note that the container must be run in a server with access to the ATCA system you plan to use. This image should be able to reach both the pysmurf server IOC as well as the timing pattern generator (TPG) IOC.

## Building the image locally

To test without releasing, can build locally by running

```
docker build . -t smurf-base
```

on the command line in the top smurf-base-docker repository directory.  If successful, can enter a bash session in the new image via

```
docker run -ti --rm --name smurf-base smurf-base:latest
```
